# Heart-Failure-Prediction
## Web application made using Python ,Flask involves Machine Learning to predict Heart Failure 

### About the Data 


    Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the number 1 cause of death globally, taking an estimated 17.9 million lives each year, which accounts for 31% of all deaths worlwide.
    Heart failure is a common event caused by CVDs and this dataset contains 12 features that can be used to predict mortality by heart failure._

    Most cardiovascular diseases can be prevented by addressing behavioural risk factors such as tobacco use, unhealthy diet and obesity, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol using population-wide strategies.

    People with cardiovascular disease or who are at high cardiovascular risk (due to the presence of one or more risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidaemia or already established disease) need early detection and management wherein a machine learning model can be of great help.
    
    The dataset contains 13 features, which report clinical, body, and lifestyle information (Table 1), that we briefly describe here. Some features are binary: anaemia, high blood pressure, diabetes, sex, and smoking (Table 1). The hospital physician considered a patient having anaemia if haematocrit levels were lower than 36% [52]. Unfortunately, the original dataset manuscript provides no definition of high blood pressure [52].

_Regarding the features, the creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) states the level of the CPK enzyme in blood. When a muscle tissue gets damaged, CPK flows into the blood. Therefore, high levels of CPK in the blood of a patient might indicate a heart failure or injury [68]. The ejection fraction states the percentage of how much blood the left ventricle pumps out with each contraction. The serum creatinine is a waste product generated by creatine, when a muscle breaks down. Especially, doctors focus on serum creatinine in blood to check kidney function. If a patient has high levels of serum creatinine, it may indicate renal dysfunction [69]. Sodium is a mineral that serves for the correct functioning of muscles and nerves. The serum sodium test is a routine blood exam that indicates if a patient has normal levels of sodium in the blood. An abnormally low level of sodium in the blood might be caused by heart failure [70]. The death event feature, that we use as the target in our binary classification study, states if the patient died or survived before the end of the follow-up period, that was 130 days on average [52]. The original dataset article [52] unfortunately does not indicate if any patient had primary kidney disease, and provides no additional information about what type of follow-up was carried out. Regarding the dataset imbalance, the survived patients (death event = 0) are 203, while the dead patients (death event = 1) are 96. In statistical terms, there are 32.11% positives and 67.89% negatives._
    
### Inputs :
    * Age
    * Time -> Follow-up period (days)
    * Serum Creatinine -> Level of serum creatinine in the blood (mg/dL)
    * Ejection Fraction -> Percentage of blood leaving the heart at each contraction (percentage)

### Citation
_Davide Chicco, Giuseppe Jurman: Machine learning can predict survival of patients with heart failure from serum creatinine and ejection fraction alone. BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making 20, 16 (2020)_
[Link](https://bmcmedinformdecismak.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12911-020-1023-5)
